## Using the DEVICE SELECTOR Property

Device Selector is a property that can be added to a DriverWorks driver. Device Selector allows you (as the driver developer) to display a list of devices that may be associated with the driver you have developed. These devices can then be selected from within composer. The selected devices are then “bound” to the driver.
As stated above, Device Selector is added to the properties section of your driver. The example below contains an entry that associated a network storage device to the driver:

      `<property>`
        `<name>AssociatedDevice</name>`
        `<type>DEVICE_SELECTOR</type>`
        `<items>`
          `<item>control4_network_mediastorage.c4i</item>`
        `</items>`
        `<multiselect>false</multiselect>`
      `</property>`

The device selector property can be named anything you like. In the example above it is named “Associated Device”.

The property type must be: `DEVICE_SELECTOR`

In the items section enter the devices as they display in Composer. Acceptable items are permitted c4i names for either proxy or protocols.

The multi-select element controls whether multiple devices can be selected from within Composer. True supports the selection of all of the devices in the items section. False allows for the selection of one.

Once the driver has been modified and saved into the project, “Associated Device” will now be displayed under the Properties tab in Composer. Clicking on the Select button will display all of the devices listed under the items section of the Device Selector property. If the multi-select element has a value of True, all of the devices in the items section will be displayed in the tree with check boxes next to them. The installer can select as many of the items as desired. If multi-select has a value of false only one of the devices in the items section can be chosen. Clicking on the Set button will bind the driver to the selected devices.


### Device Selector in Lua

The selected devices are also presented as a comma delimited string of device ids under the Lua tab. For example:

`devs = Properties["Test Selector"]`
`print("Selected devices: " .. devs)`

Returns the following:
`Selected devices: 13,16,18,20,26,28,30,32,34,36,38,40,42,44,46,48,50,52,54,56,58,60,64,66,68,72,74,76,78,80`
