
# Getting Started with JumpStart

**Pre-configuration Requirements**

JumpStart can be installed and configured into development environment of choice using the JumpStart.exe file. This is a Windows executable that requires two .json files in order to run:

1. JumpStartEnvironment.json - This file contains the settings used by JumpStart to configure the environment for the initial generation of a new driver.  An example of a simple JumpStartEnvironment.json file would be:

```json
{
  "General": {
    "TemplateDir": "..drivers-template-code",
    "WorkDir": "NewDrivers",
    "IncludeLuacheck": true
  }
}
```

This file needs to reside in the same directory as the JumpStart.exe file.

Detailed documentation for complete configuration of this file can be found in the JumpStartEnvironment.json section of this documentation.

2. \<drivername\>.json - This file is a driver designation file is a required Json file used as input to JumpStart. This file will provide the basic information to JumpStart for it to generate a basic .C4Z driver file. An example driver designation file would be AcmeTV.json. That file can be found at:

[https://github.com/snap-one/drivers-jumpstart/blob/master/SampleDriverFiles/AcmeTv.json][1]

Detailed documentation for complete configuration of this file can be found in the Driver Designation section of this documentation.


**Running the Executable**

Execute the JumpStart.exe file from a command line. For example, using the AcmeTv.json file:


`JumpStart.exe SampleDriverFiles/AcmeTV.json`


Upon execution, the file will generate a set of file is Working Directory (`Work Dir`  in the  JumpStartEnvironment.json file above) that make up a driver.c4z file. These files can now be compiled with DriverPackager to build a viable driver that can be loaded into a project in ComposerPro.

[1]:	https://github.com/snap-one/drivers-jumpstart/blob/master/SampleDriverFiles/AcmeTv.json